What's New in DevTools 126 (#3192)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/experimental-features/index.md

* [Introduction to the Performance tool](../evaluate-performance/index.md)

Status:
* This checkbox is present in Microsoft Edge Canary 128.
* This checkbox is present in Microsoft Edge Stable 125.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Enable save and load trace with annotations in Performance Panel
<!-- checkbox has no (?) link pointing to this anchor wording -->

_new as of Microsoft Edge 125_

See the above section, showing the newer label for the checkbox.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Enable new Performance panel landing page which includes live metrics and field data
<!-- checkbox has no (?) link pointing to this anchor wording -->

_new as of Microsoft Edge 128_

In the **Performance** tool, displays a main page section that shows live metrics and field data.

> <!-- todo: need real desc -->

Reviewer: Enable new Performance panel landing page which includes live metrics and field data
Need real desc @captainbrosset

Reviewer: ```
In the **Performance** tool, adds a landing page that's displayed when no performance traces 
have been recorded yet.  The landing page displays performance metrics about the rendered 
page that are updated live, such as:
* **Largest Contentful Paint (LCP)**
* **Cumulative Layout Shift (CLS)**
* **Interaction to Next Paint (INP)**
```

* [Record heap snapshots using the Memory tool](../memory-problems/heap-snapshots.md)

Status:
* This checkbox is present in Microsoft Edge Canary 128.
* This checkbox is present in Microsoft Edge Stable 125.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Performance panel: invalidation tracking
<!-- checkbox has no (?) link pointing to this anchor wording -->

Controls whether to show invalidation tracking in the **Performance** tool.

> <!-- todo: real desc for this older entry -->

Reviewer: Performance panel: invalidation tracking
Need real desc @captainbrosset

Reviewer 2: Adds an **Invalidations** section for **Recalculate Style** events under the **Summary** tab of the **Performance** tool. The **Invalidations** section provides information about the root cause for a **Recalculate Style** event, which might be helpful when investigating long **Recalculate Style** events that are causing performance issues.

The **Invalidations** section lists the DOM nodes that got invalidated as a result of a change on the page, such as a DOM mutation, and which the browser engine had to restyle during the **Recalculate Style** event.

Reviewer: ```
Adds an **Invalidations** section for **Recalculate Style** events in the **Summary** tab 
of the **Performance** tool.  The **Invalidations** section provides information about 
the root cause for a **Recalculate Style** event, which might be helpful when 
investigating long-running **Recalculate Style** events that are causing performance 
issues.

The **Invalidations** section lists the DOM nodes that were invalidated as a result of 
a change on the webpage, such as a DOM mutation, and which the browser engine 
had to restyle during the **Recalculate Style** event.
```

## Performance panel: enable user timings based extensions
<!-- checkbox has no (?) link pointing to this anchor wording -->

_new label for checkbox as of Microsoft Edge 128_

Enables extensions that customize the appearance of user timing events in the **Performance** tool.

See also:
* [Performance features reference](../evaluate-performance/reference.md)
* [Performance recording event reference](../evaluate-performance/performance-reference.md)

Status:
* This checkbox is present in Microsoft Edge Canary 128.
* This checkbox is present in Microsoft Edge Stable 125.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Timeline: Enable User Timings based extensions
<!-- checkbox has no (?) link pointing to this anchor wording -->

_new as of Microsoft Edge 125_

See the above section, showing the newer label for the checkbox.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Performance panel: Enable collecting enhanced traces
<!-- checkbox has no (?) link pointing to this anchor wording -->

_new as of Microsoft Edge 128_

In the **Performance** tool, when recording, collects enhanced traces.

> <!-- todo: real desc - maybe extract from article -->

Reviewer: Performance panel: Enable collecting enhanced traces
Need real desc @captainbrosset
try from article:
https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/experimental-features/share-traces?branch=pr-en-us-3192

Reviewer 2: @robpaveza can you help with this one please? Isn't this something that Edge has been able to do for some time, and we're upstreaming it now. Trying to understand whether enabling this experiment downstream does anything, or whether we just always support enhanced traces.

Reviewer: Jayson to assist

Reviewer 3: This experiment is for performance panel capturing newly added traces to support enhanced traces v2 (currently implementing in upstream). It does not affect the ability of downstream enhanced traces and the state of it doesn't impact downstream user's experience.

Reviewer: result:
```
This experiment makes the **Performance** tool capture newly added traces, to support 
enhanced traces v2.  This feature is being implemented in upstream.  This experiment 
doesn't affect the capabilities of downstream enhanced traces.  The state of this checkbox 
doesn't impact a downstream user's experience.
```

Status:
* This checkbox is present in Microsoft Edge Canary 128.
* This checkbox is not present in Microsoft Edge Stable 125.

See also:
* [Share enhanced performance and memory traces](../experimental-features/share-traces.md)
* [Performance features reference](../evaluate-performance/reference.md)
* [Performance recording event reference](../evaluate-performance/performance-reference.md)

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Performance panel: Enable collecting source text for compiled script
<!-- checkbox has no (?) link pointing to this anchor wording -->

_new as of Microsoft Edge 128_

In the **Performance** tool, when recording, collects source text (the original source code) for compiled JavaScript code.

> <!-- todo: real desc -->

Reviewer: Performance panel: Enable collecting source text for compiled script
Need real desc @captainbrosset
check https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/devtools-guide-chromium/experimental-features/share-traces?branch=pr-en-us-3192

Reviewer 2: My limited understanding of this experiment is that it doesn't have an impact on the UI of DevTools. It's used to make it possible to store the source code of compiled scripts in the trace file, when exporting it.

@robpaveza: can you please help with this one too? Is this used when loading an enhanced trace in a new window, perhaps?

Reviewer: ```
In the **Performance** tool, when exporting the trace file, stores the source code of 
compiled scripts in the trace file.  <!-- This experiment is used when loading an enhanced 
trace in a new window. -->
```

Reviewer: Jayson to assist

Reviewer 3: Same as the other one, this experiment is for performance panel capturing newly added traces for script source text to support enhanced traces v2 (currently implementing in upstream). It does not affect the ability of downstream enhanced traces and the state of it doesn't impact downstream user's experience.

Reviewer: result:
```
In the **Performance** tool, when exporting the trace file, stores the source code of 
compiled scripts in the trace file.

This experiment makes the **Performance** tool capture newly added traces for script 
source text, to support enhanced traces v2.  This feature is being implemented in 
upstream.  This experiment doesn't affect the capabilities of downstream enhanced 
traces.  The state of this checkbox doesn't impact a downstream user's experience.
```

Status:
* This checkbox is present in Microsoft Edge Canary 128.
* This checkbox is not present in Microsoft Edge Stable 125.

See also:
* [Share enhanced performance and memory traces](../experimental-features/share-traces.md)
* [Performance features reference](../evaluate-performance/reference.md)
* [Performance recording event reference](../evaluate-performance/performance-reference.md)

> <!-- todo: best articles? -->

Reviewer: best See Also's?
@captainbrosset

Reviewer 2: I think the article about sharing enhanced traces is the best See Also we can add here.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Performance panel: Enable debug mode (trace event details, etc)
<!-- checkbox has no (?) link pointing to this anchor wording -->

_new as of Microsoft Edge 128_

In the **Performance** tool, enables debug mode, such as using trace event details.
<!-- todo: real desc -->

Status:
* This checkbox is present in Microsoft Edge Canary 128.
* This checkbox is not present in Microsoft Edge Stable 125.

See also:
* [Share enhanced performance and memory traces](../experimental-features/share-traces.md)
* [Performance features reference](../evaluate-performance/reference.md)
* [Performance recording event reference](../evaluate-performance/performance-reference.md)

> <!-- todo: best articles? -->

Reviewer: best See Also's for Debug Mode?
@captainbrosset

Reviewer 2: Adds a **Trace Event** section to the **Summary** tab of the **Performance** tool. The **Trace Event** section is displayed when you select an event in a recorded performance trace. The **Trace Event** section displays debugging information about the selected trace event, such as its name and duration.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Performance panel: enable user timings based extensions
<!-- checkbox has no (?) link pointing to this anchor wording -->

_new label for checkbox as of Microsoft Edge 128_

Enables extensions that customize the appearance of user timing events in the **Performance** tool.

See also:
* [Performance features reference](../evaluate-performance/reference.md)
* [Performance recording event reference](../evaluate-performance/performance-reference.md)

Status:
* This checkbox is present in Microsoft Edge Canary 128.
* This checkbox is present in Microsoft Edge Stable 125.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Timeline: Enable User Timings based extensions
<!-- checkbox has no (?) link pointing to this anchor wording -->

_new as of Microsoft Edge 125_

See the above section, showing the newer label for the checkbox.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Performance panel: Enable collecting enhanced traces
<!-- checkbox has no (?) link pointing to this anchor wording -->

_new as of Microsoft Edge 128_

> This experiment makes the **Performance** tool capture newly added traces, to support enhanced traces v2.  This feature is being implemented in upstream.  This experiment doesn't affect the capabilities of downstream enhanced traces.  The state of this checkbox doesn't impact a downstream user's experience.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This experiment makes the **Performance** tool capture newly added traces, to support enhanced traces v2.  This feature is being implemented in the upstream Chromium project.  This experiment doesn't affect the capabilities of Microsoft Edge to capture enhanced traces and doesn't impact DevTools user's experience.
```

Status:
* This checkbox is present in Microsoft Edge Canary 128.
* This checkbox is not present in Microsoft Edge Stable 125.

See also:
* [Share enhanced performance and memory traces](../experimental-features/share-traces.md)
* [Performance features reference](../evaluate-performance/reference.md)
* [Performance recording event reference](../evaluate-performance/performance-reference.md)

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Performance panel: Enable collecting source text for compiled script
<!-- checkbox has no (?) link pointing to this anchor wording -->

_new as of Microsoft Edge 128_

In the **Performance** tool, when exporting the trace file, stores the source code of compiled scripts in the trace file.

> This experiment makes the **Performance** tool capture newly added traces for script source text, to support enhanced traces v2.  This feature is being implemented in upstream.  This experiment doesn't affect the capabilities of downstream enhanced traces.  The state of this checkbox doesn't impact a downstream user's experience.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This experiment makes the **Performance** tool record script source text in treaces.  This feature is being implemented in the upstream Chromium project.
```

* [Application tool, to manage storage](../storage/application-tool.md)

Status:
* This checkbox is not present in Microsoft Edge Canary 128.
* This checkbox is present in Microsoft Edge Stable 125.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Enable the experimental, WIP sidebar for the Performance Panel.
<!-- checkbox has no (?) link pointing to this anchor wording -->
<!-- checkbox label has period -->

_new as of Microsoft Edge 128_

In the **Performance** tool, enables the Windows Information Protection (WIP) sidebar.

> <!-- todo: real desc - check article -->

Reviewer: Enable the experimental, WIP sidebar for the Performance Panel.
need real desc @captainbrosset - expand "WIP" correctly.
check https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/security/information-protection/windows-information-protection/protect-enterprise-data-using-wip

Reviewer 2: This experiment is a work in progress (WIP). Enabling it adds a vertical sidebar to the **Performance** tool. The sidebar will later contain performance insights helping you find bottlenecks in your recorded performance traces more quickly.

Reviewer 2: Let's not add any see also here, I can't think of any that would work.

Reviewer: ```
Enables the sidebar in the **Performance** tool.  The sidebar is an experimental work in progress (WIP).

<!-- omit See Also -->

<!-- todo: screenshot of resulting UI, eg in Canary -->
```
@captainbrosset fyi i'm not seeing the resulting sidebar in the ui, so no screenshot
